Speaker 1  0:02  
Uh, let's just do a quick overview of what we're going to talk about today, and then I'll go into some announcements, and then we'll hit the material. So today we are going to be talking about, well, we're going to recap from reinforcement learning, which we were talking about on Tuesday, and we're going to talk about the reinforcement learning from human feedback, which is something that we've actually been, you know, interacting with technically, whenever we use these AI tools. I'm interested to see, you know, we'll have a exercise, and I want to hear you guys feedback on giving the feedback and how much you do. But with that, we're going to talk on that subject for a bit, and then we are going to get into today's main set of slides, which are just going to talk about the the model architecture. Last class, we talked very much in the focus of training AI models and how these models are either supervised or unsupervised through their learning process, essentially, kind of given a test key and go through mathematical processes to correct themselves. Or it's more about kind of the reward or the the game element of whatever their output is, and how it's graded upon that environment. But now we're going to get into the models themselves. We're going to learn a little bit about all the different models that are out there. They're not all just the one same type of model to do, image and text and all these cool things. So we'll learn a little bit about the different structures, and we'll learn when they're useful and how they do a little bit of how they work on the insights, just to give us a little bit more of an understanding of where these models could have limitations and where they really excel. And again, that's, I know this is getting a little bit of, like, a headier side of things, talking about the models themselves, the math that's involved. And, you know, there's not as much of a value of like applying this right today, but like ultimately understanding the models and understanding the variety of models that are out there. It if you ever were to train your own model, which is totally an option that you you can do. It might not be to the extent that open AI or Google can afford to do but you know, there's plenty of projects where AI models can be trained to perform certain tasks. And we'll actually get into a few of those. We'll see some models within some very basic code. I'll try to break it down as much as possible, but, you know, ultimately, we'll see the training process happen. We'll talk about the model structures in the math. And it's going to be really exciting to see that it sometimes it can be complex. Sometimes it feels a bit too simple

Unknown Speaker  3:42  
at points, so

Speaker 1  3:46  
I'm interested to see what you guys think about that.

Unknown Speaker  3:51  
So that is

Speaker 1  3:53  
what we're going to get into today. A couple announcements before we jump into that. Though, my main announcement is going to be that we are planning on having some more guest speakers come into class starting next week, we'll kind of have a bit of like a cycle of guest speakers come in kind of regularly for a week or two, and then we'll, for the most part, it. We've already had one. We kind of know a little bit about the process. You know, we have a guest speaker coming to class for about 30 to 60 Minutes, around six o'clock, and then they'll talk about their experience in the tech world. Some are kencode alumni. I believe the next, the first guest speaker was an alumni, and our next guest speakers are going to be alumni as well. So it's a really cool community that we're seeing kind of working with each other. Are there. But then we also have some other guest speakers that are just professionals in the AI space, and we're going to see the work that they do, how they got started, how they got into those

Unknown Speaker  5:16  
roles, and where

Speaker 1  5:18  
we can apply these skills to best position ourselves in either, you know, job acquisition or just trying to change whole careers. You know, there's a lot to the power of AI and how to demonstrate it here. So, yeah, we're going to have those conversations. The first, well, the the most recent one that we're going to get into is it is Shifra and Johnny he they are both trainees from a python two Data Analytics course I believe that I taught in early when I started off here at kencode, and they have been doing a bunch of work together. They met, I believe in the the course, and they've been able to create some really cool projects build on their their knowledge here. And yeah, they'll, they'll come in talk about their their work, their insights, and, yeah, we'll have a fun conversation about AI and where it's leading. So that's always exciting, because it's it's a fun time to just interact with people that are in the space, and it's more fun to hear people talk about it, other than myself, for three hours, so it's going to be a great time. So with that, whenever we do have guest speakers, I really do appreciate it. If you guys are, you know, excited to talk and you know, have your cameras on. Ultimately, I love to see the cameras on. You know, it's a good habit to have, especially in any, you know, company environment you're going to be expected to have that on anyways. So, you know, especially when we have guest speakers, I really appreciate that, and I'll try to share some LinkedIn links to kind of grow our networks here. While we're getting guest speakers, these people are interested to connect with you guys. They want to help you out. And so we'll have the conversations. I'll share the LinkedIn accounts with you guys, so that you can take a look at them and maybe even get a few questions under your belt before we start that conversation, and then later, you can kind of follow up with them, and that's a great way to kind of start your your networking. It's not always the funnest thing to do, but here it makes it a little bit easier baked into the class, so would definitely recommend. So I think I hit all the points there. I think for the most part, I'm good on announcements. If anything, I will just remember to loop back to them at the end of class time today. But let's jump into material, because I'm excited about what we got going on today, and I'm sure I'll go on a rant sometime, and we'll lose track of class time. I want to make sure we hit everything. Today. So

Unknown Speaker  8:46  
let's get started here

Speaker 1  8:49  
real quick. Let me just double check that I got the files up here. I believe I have the class slides up to date. I got the class 13 slides. I'll get class 14 slides here when we switch over, but they are on the teams File section, if you guys are interested. You know, take a look at those. And yeah, we're going to pick up where we left off last class, which was talking about reinforcement learning, human feedback. Main point we left off on, but I'm gonna back it up just a little bit, because this plays on the biggest point here, which is, you know that the training process of these models, it's important to understand how these models train, so that way we can see where potentially, you know, data has bias to have baked into it, or how the systems are affected by that. And like I mentioned in last class. Us. You know it really does matter the quality of your data, especially when you set up your training environment. You know how many, the size of your batches and other elements to the hyper parameters, which are basically the settings that you run your training cycle on, and those are all determined by the quality of the data, the length of the data and the it to ensure that the model is actually going to generate quality responses based off of that training cycle. So we were talking heavily about training. There's two key elements to training. There's unsupervised learning and supervised learning. Supervised Learning is most of what we see within AI training. This is very much like the way that we learn, you know, it, I always reference supervised learning to kind of like, you know, taking a test, you get a batch of questions, you you know, you fill them out, you give your best guess, and then they get graded. And, you know, time over time you want to, if you got, like, the same groupings of tests over and over, you would see the spots that you got wrong and try to, you know, make adjustments there. And it doesn't exactly mean that you'll get it right the next time, but we want to keep nudging to the right answers and getting 100% correct in the future. So, yeah, that's supervised learning. And a lot of AI models focus on that. A lot of transformer models, which are the models that Power Chat, GPT and, you know, Gemini and Claude, these models are trained specifically for the most part, on supervised learning. And so we'll get into the model structure and how they're trained specifically through supervised learning. But I said for the most part, they're trained by supervised learning, because there's just a little bit of unsupervised learning here, which we'll talk about when we get to reinforcement learning from human feedback. But I think it's important to talk about reinforcement learning as a whole. First Reinforcement learning is a part of this unsupervised learning. It's kind of one of the tech techniques within the broader understanding of the unsupervised learning fact or the topic itself, unsupervised learning is when there's no exact answer that can be graded against. This is like a lot of those image generators, like, you can't really grade the model off of a picture of a dog if it's still a picture of a dog, you know, it doesn't matter if the The sky is blue in the background, though, there's a lot of things that need to make sense to be a quality photo, and so unsupervised learning has a lot to do with that. I mean, that's just one example, but there's a lot of unsupervised learning that has been thought of as like problem solving or data analytics. You know, Netflix recommendation on movies is a unsupervised learning situation where it looks at your you know, a lot of your account data, whether that's watch history or other metrics and demographics that you know have specific lenience to genres or specific titles, and that is all within this Unsupervised Learning algorithm, and it is able to give you A cluster of movies, or, you know, the top rated movies that you would be interested in. This is very much where the algorithmic

Unknown Speaker  14:29  
side of AI comes from,

Speaker 1  14:33  
but it's not as common because unsupervised learning as you think. It's harder to kind of hone in, because there's not exact true answers. And so this is an interesting field. Reinforcement Learning, again, is just one of the techniques to apply unsupervised learning as a whole, and this is focused on. On a, what is known as an agent and environment setting. So the environment, it really can be anything like we're going to talk about it with reinforcement learning from human feedback. It applies to, you know, a chat environment, but we can think of it within reinforcement learning a little bit easier when we think about like a character in a video game. You know, there's always we can think of that character as the agent. And whenever the there's a game, there's a intended goal, and within that goal, there's rewards and penalties if you do the right or wrong actions. So, you know, we try to figure out the goal of the game, or we try to complete the goal of the game if we already know it, and ultimately, we learn the tips and tricks of how to do it properly through just taking action, seeing the reward, seeing the reaction, whether reward or, you know, a penalty, and then updating kind of the the game plan of where to try next. And, yeah, that's ultimately a way to teach anything how to, you know, learn a specific task. Essentially, it's just like, you know, brute force, or, like, trying almost every option in the book a little bit more complex. But this can be easily seen as like training a pet. You want to reward the good behavior or discourage the bad behavior, and

Unknown Speaker  16:55  
so ultimately,

Speaker 1  16:59  
self driving cars is a great example. Robotics is another one. We looked at a video example of a robotic type character in a simulated like video game style thing environment, and it learned how to walk and even get bumped by these moving cubes and stand still so time, over time, the the game, or the the goal of or like the reward policy essentially changed over time to ensure that the The model was doing the right things. And this is a big thing to where reinforcement learning can fail, or can be a big issue is that when you gamify something, you always open it up to possibly finding the loophole in the way that you've constrained it. So in a lot of things we especially with self driving cars and robotics and stuff, we really don't want that to happen. One of the things that is very interesting, I haven't mentioned the game playing AI AlphaGo, I believe, is this model that was trained to play the game go, which is it's a bit like checkers, if that's an app comparison. I don't know if everyone is in touch with the Go games, but it has its own set of rules, and the AI model was able to basically figure out an approach that nobody had ever like thought about, and it was it made no sense other than the fact that everybody else was playing towards one strategy, and as soon as the other strategy was implemented, it would basically break the the strategy of the other player. But if you know, ultimately put towards logic and like a human player can adapt to see other things happen. You know, it was just baffled and it didn't work out. So there's definitely your reinforcement learning can make it feel like the models learned so much. But we you need to ensure that you're thinking about the way that the model is going to interact with the live environment. Usually, we never train models on live environments, because that can be dangerous with self driving cars as such, and robotics as well. So. So ensuring that the whole like gamified system that you train it on is very much the real life scenario, and that there is no kind of loophole way to get around the reward policy is

Unknown Speaker  20:17  
really hard in some instances. So

Speaker 1  20:21  
it's definitely something to keep in mind, and that leads us to reinforcement learning from human feedback. Because actually, this point that I'm making here has actually came out open aI had a blog posts recently talking about how they kind of overlooked some elements of their reinforcement learning from human feedback, but I will get to that here in a moment. First, let's just understand the topic reinforcement learning from human feedback. Is this reinforcement learning? But now the reward policy is based off of human grading. Essentially there it's not like a set of rules where you get some rewards if you do this better, or in the in the video game X examples that we talked about last class or saw the video of the score got they get more reward getting closer and closer to the end of the map. And so that is kind of wiped away here, and human feedback, obviously can be kind of hard to fully understand what every human will like, but essentially the The goal was to get these chat models to generate responses that are not only accurate, but also just aligned with human values and contextually appropriate. And really, you know, for the most part, no other animal can speak our languages. We're the most like there's no other way for us to kind of build this intelligence other than having it evaluated by humans here, and so it's a great task for reinforcement learning because it's hard to qualify. There's no exact grading system that you could apply in like a supervised learning scenario that would actually make sense.

Unknown Speaker  22:39  
So

Speaker 1  22:42  
basically, if you know, you're probably wondering, you know, how did they apply this, if there's no, like, real rules or exact grading, essentially, these models were given a prompt and created a bunch of different options for responses this video or not. The video, this visualization here on the slides, shows it to be, you know, a little bit of a cooler visual here. But, you know, we put a prompt into the model, and it generates multiple answers. And essentially, they hired a bunch of trainers or graders, essentially to reward the best answer and penalize the one that wasn't. As you know, quality. And so it did that. It basically created a data set of a prompt with multiple answers, and a user graded ranking of those answers. You know, it might not just be two and it, this was a whole data set. And, you know, open, AI hired a bunch of graders particular for this, and they were all the graders were given this, you know, handbook, kind of telling them how to think about the the ideas of how to grade these things, how to grade the responses over each other, essentially. And then that data was essentially used to create this reward model where, instead of humans, it will use an AI model to then act as the human and understand kind of the name of the game of how to properly rank based off of this data set of prompts multiple answers, and then ranking those multiple answers. And so this reward model, funnily enough, is trained through supervised learning, because there's a bunch of. Of prompts, answers and grades. You know, it's just generalizing across that data set. It had to be a big data set, but it was questions, answers, and it was, it's just trained to kind of follow that reasoning that was implemented within that data set there. So the reward model is now going to be the way that the

Unknown Speaker  25:35  
model is kind of

Speaker 1  25:40  
augmented now, so a user will prompt the main model, essentially it will generate an answer, and the reward model will get that answer and grade it and determine whether it needs a reward or a penalization of some sort. So it's kind of this loop here that allows the models to optimize to generate human aligned answers and responses to these questions. And I know it we're thinking like, why does this need to happen? This is why, you know, AI is so personal. AI is, you know, helpful, and even why AI, you know, when we ask it unsafe questions, why it is able to, you know, answer in a way that it says, Well, I can't talk about this, but let's, let me give you some information about, you know, a safe side of that topic, or something like that. It tries to further the conversation align with human values and ultimately stay within the context of the conversation. And this leads us to kind of understanding what the models were before reinforcement learning from human feedback was implemented. Basically when we train these big models, we take the data from the internet, and that's like all the data we can possibly get our hands on. That's language based, and we train it through the model itself, trying to basically just get a language model. You know, it's not directed to do any task or anything. It's just basically like your suggestive search whenever you're on Google, when you type things in, the next few words are predicted for you, and it doesn't exactly lead anywhere. It could easily just trail off into randomness. But then there's a layer of feedback for fine tuning, and this is usually where it creates a lot more of like this chat environment, where a human will ask a question, AI will respond with something relevant and hopefully correct in quality, and then Reinforcement learning is taken on that side to another level of making sure that that is even more favored by humans, that it aligns with the human values while being correct and safe.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
